if we start with a superposition that seeded guy is 0 0 0. So I'm going to use three cubits, 0 0 0, and we have a superposition. And now we apply the Grover's amplitude amplification without the Oracle, right? So this is another layer of Hadamard sandwich time. And then we were negating, we're sandwiching also with controlled nots, because we want to negate the, so we're going back to the, to the zero and one computational basis, and we want to negate the phase of the of this element. And because we can't, we can't do this directly, we need to do, because you, you know, you would negate with control, control Z, you would basically negate the one-one-one component. So if you sandwich that with controlled, or with, with not gates, not, you get that effect, right? So you go here, then you negate that phase, and then you're uncomputing here. So what we have is, all we have is the same superposition, but totally negated, right?

Now, I kind of, so I've been in the past week or so, I've been obsessed with the completed application, because I'm, because I'm trying to find an intuitive way to explain what's, how are the effects playing out without going through the geometrical interpretation, which is neat and nice, but it's, I still find it for my taste to be too far away from the actual circuit, right? Now, I've done, probably on, I mean, have some tons of Grover videos and I think I've done a couple of that date update to my intuition. And the last one was, you know, where I was basically playing with a concept of turning destructive interference with constructive interference. I was saying, you know, imagine you've got, you know, you, you can see you've got this superposition, and then you wanna, you wanna phase this one, right? And so you could imagine that, you know, to do that, you, you need to kind of add, you know, a little kind of add a couple of these negative elements in here. So, so, you know, so these would then cancel out, then you, you get your result. And if you take a look at these portion of the algorithm, it really just flips the sign off of that superposition. So, you know, after these, you have basically all these are minuses. But now what used to be destructive interference for you, here it's constructive, because you've got like, you've got like a minus, a minus in a minus. So, this kind of has this pattern of, you know, being amplified. But that's not, I feel that that needs to be revisited. That's not, doesn't feel, mmm, it doesn't feel good enough. And it feels also a bit far away from, from what really happens in reality. It's kind of a good tool, but I, when I was playing with these, I realized that, you know, that's why I titled, I probably gonna title this, this video like, I broke Grover's algorithm or something. I realized that the situation works well, but it doesn't work well for everything.

Because let me start, let me start over here. So, if I have this preposition, right? That I just painted. So let's say 0 0 1 1 0 1 1. And now what I want to have is for example, a, I, I wanna, I wanna find this element, this element, and this element, right? So Grover's algorithm, no listen, it's even, even worse, just these two elements, the Grover's algorithm doesn't work anymore. And that just, I was like, what? I mean, if I keep using my intuition here, the tool it should work, rankest, you're just adding a couple of these, you're adding up and another bunch of this, and then you're, you're doing the the negation here. And so you've got like two amplification effects. But if I, if I start just have the two cubed version here, right? And now I do, so now you've got these, and now I will let's say negate the amplitudes of these two, right? So, and now I applied chorus algorithm amplitude amplification, and we see that really nicely, it just doesn't work. What's more, it's not that it doesn't work, it's just it just leaves us it was exactly the same with exactly the same superposition, no sorry, not this one, with the exact same one after, after facing. So, and this took me to basically start this video, because I want to basically open up. So I want to take a look at, I'm trying to revisit these. And so this is a bit of a current a brain dump of my car mental process, because I've been doing a lot of record, I've been doing sort of a lot of thinking without actually putting in the video. And I don't kind of like that. So I just, you know, thought I dropped this video.

And what's more, there's another case. So, the, this happens for, if this happens regardless of what elements you face, as long as you face half of the elements, exactly half of the elements of your superposition, then Grover algorithm doesn't work. This doesn't work. This doesn't work even if I would, you know, do something like this doesn't work. Or even if I would say I wanna face 1 1 & 0 0, this also doesn't work, right? And, and the pattern is the same, this stays the same, like this. Mmm, it doesn't matter how many iterations you do. So, um, and good. So how could I move from here? My, my current thought process is an improving a little bit this part here. And so basically trying to kind of think about each of the steps here, right? And I'm gonna consider these being one single step. This is the sort of, it's, it's the phase negation operator, right? So if I work, so if I've got, um, say an initial state for example, 1 0 0, and I apply a, and if I apply these, right? So this particular pattern in here, which is kind of a 0 0 1, right? If you want to see this way, because that's an anti control, if that matches my state, then what you get is your, you get the phase negated, right?

And so the the amplitude amplification is nothing else than the same concept, but in the plus minus phases. So show you tease, let's assume that we have a an initial state which is the plus plus plus state, right? So we've got the boxer's, and now I apply, so that would be the code into the 0 0 0, right? Or let's write the, let's say plus plus minus to just use the same example. So I'll be the equivalent of the ones here is your case, but with the with the plus minus basis. So, so this is the how the amplitudes and the faces look like. For now I apply the same that I showed you by, but so the same, so I use is in same on the same, but applied, but sandwiches with harm arts, right? So what was it? Was sin, no, wasn't into control, and then take control. So it, I've applied the same, it just sandwich they would harm arts, right? Payton should that what you've got in here and you've got here is exactly the same but with a face of 180 degrees. I'd like to the whole superposition. So this has literally, this is literally taken the, I mean step by step what this does is it goes back to, it goes back to the computational basis, right? Where you have the seat of that super position, then it negates the seed, and then it applies a later farmers again. So you're, you're ending up with a position that has the opposite phase. And I think thesis, I think this is a really good intuition. Does it, is a sort of a really good way to break you down and help me, that is helping me to more and more get close to a final version of what is really growers algorithm doing without any terms interpretation and whatnot. Um, which again, it's not that it's wrong, it's that I mean just not, it's the, I just don't feel comfortable with it.

And so what happens when you, what happens when you, what happens when you step in between and basically saying now, before I apply that phasing operator, right? Let's call it this way, that's phasing operator, which, um, by the way, with queer can be expressed by using the x axis controls, right? So in this case, this would be a minus, so this would be the, this control, which is, which controls on the cube being on + off and then an X game, right? So that that that basically you take a look at the amplitudes here, that's exactly the effect I would, that I just described. It's just I'm, it Tara takes where I like either this way, I don't like it, because it hides a harem arts and it helps me with the harm or as it helps me understand that be more that without the harem artists, it just looks more compact and it's nice as well, it's a nice way to see bees this way. The problem is, so the interesting part comes in now when I, let's say that we're let's, let's get rid of this, so here, so it's fine here, we've got like a 0 0 0, right? And that's, that's our position. So exactly. And now we're going to face one element, right? Let's say I'm gonna face the one on one, for example, so I want to face one one one, just one element, right? So that's what you get here is to get the same sort of position, but this element has been faced. Um, when, when now we, we go through the upper temptation step-by-step. So now we realize that you're no longer, you're, you don't, you don't have any more the original seed, right? Because you've definitely changed, you've changed something. So you can't, if you think about the heart, the first time a layer has basically come back to yours, the seed of your super position is not the same because you've changed it. Now, what I have realized is that for every single possible super position that you can create with say three cubits, right? That's about eight different propositions and that you can create with a horror mark, like a clean hardware layer, they are always gonna have half of their elements with a negative phase, with the exception of the 0 0 0. So that's the only one. So if I go to the - - -, you see you've got like one, two, three, four elements. Every you go to, doesn't matter, this one here, right? You've got one, two, three and four. This it's all it's always like these four for all the different types of super positions and that is actually the reason, that's actually the reason why Grover's algorithm doesn't work, because you're, you're basically these this amplitude amplification is actually not it's not a generic thing, right? It's not something you can just use out of the box. It it is really depend it's really dependent on on your initial initial seed, initial stain, if if you're especially if you're superposition is, you know, if you start with a - plus -, right? The the the part in here for this to work should also be basically about matching that. So you should have these this is correct. Sorry, I think that's not what I meant. So let me, because that's not the way this proposition works. So if the seed is 0 1 0 and then and then you create this for position exactly, no, that that should work though, it doesn't this work? Oh, sorry, I haven't faced anything. No, it actually works. Yeah, it actually works. So you've got these and these are our face. I was thinking about I don't see any I don't see any amplification, buts because we haven't really faced anything in here. But you see the rewards because it flips the sign if as soon as you change that. You see that there's no actual flipping and the reason is that, um, the reason is that lets say that you start with a 0 0 0, right? And then you face for example, these, right? Actually, now what's happened is that your seat has completely changed, all right? So now you see these 1 0 0, um, and so that doesn't match anymore with these. And so this is not gonna act on anything, because the, sorry messing around. So if I want this to much my explanation after this way. So this is not now matching this anymore, because you know, well I've got like a 0 0 0, and he says this is a negation of after 0 0 0 state. And but now I've got this seat into 0 0, since there is empty here. So this is not gonna have any effect. And if I move this display or if I explain here you'll that it's just stays the same, right? And then when I move it on the other side, I mean we can see it here. So that's the reason it doesn't work.

What's more interesting is that if you if you flag more than a half the elements, then you the amplitude amplification is gonna work the other way around. So is gonna amplify the elements that you haven't flanked. Let's say that to these I now if like the safe reason for this 1 0 0 1, right? So 0, alright? So now I've got, what have I got now here? I fly, 1, 2, 3, sorry, this is this way, exactly. So I've got any one, two, three, four elements flagged, five pilots fly. And so pay attention at the final result, you basically got the elements that you get amplified are the ones that you need in flag.

And so this is the third, this is sort of a the second special case that I that I want to take a look at. So let's back up for a second. So we've got two things take a look at. We want to take a look at there is a case where the two cases where my presentation fails. The case where you've like exactly half of the of the elements of your superposition, think that's kind of clear is it's, is you're, you're sort of changing. It seems almost like a spur position is characterized by at least half of its signs really. Um, or a superposition that's created with a layer of harm arts at least because well that is basically the way this works is, you know, it's the particular combinations of 0 & 1 give you the particular amount of minus signs, right? Because when you will apply the Harmar to the cubit that that is in the one state that's gonna create as your minus one day. And so that minus phase there, if you've got other ones in your in your three cubed state it's gonna kind of cancel or, you know, if you have if you have like a 1 1 1, right? You basically have you basically have a minus in the states where you've got either one element is a 1 and you the towards eros. This is this or where you've got an odd number of ones, right? Because they already have an even number of ones, they cancel out and they become plus.

So and that's why so that's why it doesn't work. So the question is, you say a way to change course algorithm to make it work? That's maybe for the next video. So, um, but let's see how, let's take a look a bit more idea to enough actually. So they said took cases where my intention fails, but the case in where my intention works, just wanna I just want to go through an idea now. Let me get me off all this place for a second. So let me go, so maybe you know if I should fire up one page can I just have a blank page? I have a blank page prompt Punk does this work, no cuz I know I could just go to the Laughing side it gives you a nice wide one but it's not the purpose of this is not anyway. So what I went to or I'll zoom out to be then I'll use this piece I have it quick I think it's gonna be better.

So when I was going so exactly why why that's this particular case work, right? So where you've got less than half of your elements flagged with a minus phase here, we have this case with just one, right? So intuitively I think the next level version of my intuition repeat that now that I see the way this works is it's almost like seeing the essence of turning creative destruct is to credit interference is still valid. It's just not the way that I painted it in the previous, you know, video. And so on if you think of the reason it's kind of going back to the first principles, the reason the reason this part here works, right? Is because of interference so with the hardware gates when you've got a when you've got a zero and then you apply a Haram art you get zero points one when you've got a one and you're playing harem art you get a zero minus one, right? Now what happens when you apply a harm art to these element here, right? So when you've got this your points one and you apply harem art it's it's like a playing aha Tamar to this your book to this year